Interview 9
Interviewee Nickname: ice
SE students, currently involved in one SE project or more.
Interviewer: Peiran Wei
Time: 1330CET 6/May/2022 - 1355 CET 6/May/2022
Venue: Zoom
 
Thank you very much for your effort in the past 28 days. We really appreciate it! Now, we would like to ask you some questions about your experience.. The interview will be transcribed simultaneously and we will record your voice. Immediately after tidying up the transcript and when you have agreed upon the transcript, we will delete the recording permanently.
 
Q1[Open-ended]  RQ1
First question, how did your daily work experience change, for example implementing the requirements, pull request accepted, conceptual modelling or the grasp of the whole project?  
Right, okay, I don’t think there is a… kind of change that changed super obvious, though I’m currently working within a school project about umm… generally about web development. All I can say is like, i felt a bit relaxed after I finished the meditation


Q2[Open-ended]  RQ1.1
After taking mindful relaxation, what changes do you feel in terms of your behaviour in your own work? 
Well well… like I said, I just didn’t feel there are a lot of changes in terms of my behaviour. The intervention thing in the past nearly one month for me umm… overall for myself during either coding on my own or paired is like, a refresh of my mind or let’s say, it’s more like a short break for my brain at all, I would say.


Q4[Open-ended]  RQ1.2
Did you work as a team in a school or industrial project, with other people in the past 28 days?
[To be asked ONLY when (s)he is working on a project or working with a team.] After taking mindful relaxation, what changes do you feel in terms of your behaviour in teamwork?]
Apparently a yes, like what I just mentioned in the very beginning, since I’m working in a project related to web development, our group needs to, or have to separate into two groups including front-end and backend. So, obviously, we need to regularly hold group meetings to hook the progress from both sides. Personally, whenever I join this kind of group discussion I will be highly focused, so I don’t think the meditation stuff did affect me in any aspect.
  
Q3 [Open-ended] RQ1.1
How did the mindful principles help you achieve such changes?/ What mindful principles helped you ameliorate/improve your work experience?
Okay, so, the intervention for me… umm… it’s just like a fully refreshed process of my mind, my brain, it’s more like a relaxation that I took when our group worked together, but onething, I have to say that once your brain get relaxed, that means your brain gonna have more space to think about the other things, or to consider something more carefully.


Q5[Open-ended] RQ2
What major mental benefits have you taken away from the mindful relaxation in the past month?
Umm… alright, I don’t know if it's appropriate to say in the interview hahaha… but I will just give it to you anyway, to be honest, I didn’t feel like there is a lot difference after the intervention on either my mental or kinda behaviour, but it's truly a good a good process of relaxation during my working hours.


Q6[Open-ended] RQ2.1
After taking mindful relaxation, what changes in the way you view yourself? When I say the way you view yourself, it may include genuine self-knowledge or varying degrees of distortion
Well, I really don’t know how to answer this honestly, but I did feel like I could concentrate more on something that I’m doing for the moment because my brain got some kind of relaxation. 


Q7[Open-ended] RQ2.2
After taking mindful relaxation, how did your ability to focus change?
Yeah, just like what I told you, I thought my ability to focus on something has slightly improved right away after the meditation… it feels like I can pay more attention to the task I’m dealing with for an example, but not that obvious.


Q8 [Open-ended] RQ1 RQ2
What are your take-aways, or learnings from mindful relaxation? 
Okay Well, that would be to learn how to relax yourself I would say, at least one way to get my brain refreshed a little bit, and I believe that would help a lot when working together with others.


Q9 [Open-ended] RQ1 RQ2
Do you think you will continue practising mindful relaxation regularly in the future? Why or why not?
That's something I will consider doing afterwards the intervention, since it did give me some help and most importantly, a way to relax. 


Q10 [Open-ended] RQ1 RQ2
What other changes by the mindful relaxation do you think of? 
Well, I think I have just given you all my words and there is… okay, I don’t think I can give you something more, that’s all about it.