Interview 11
Interviewee Nickname: kfc
SE students, NOT currently involved in any SE project.
Interviewer: Peiran Wei
Time: 1530CET 6/May/2022 - 1550 CET 6/May/2022
Venue: Zoom
 
Thank you very much for your effort in the past 28 days. We really appreciate it! Now, we would like to ask you some questions about your experience.. The interview will be transcribed simultaneously and we will record your voice. Immediately after tidying up the transcript and when you have agreed upon the transcript, we will delete the recording permanently.
 
Q1[Open-ended]  RQ1
First question, how did your daily work experience change, for example implementing the requirements, pull request accepted, conceptual modelling or the grasp of the whole project?  
Okay, I don’t think I experienced any changes over the past month honestly, but it might depend on if I am involved in any group project that umm… needs actual coding… It’s just a bit hard for me to recall something specific from the last month since I’m super busy working on my thesis at the moment.




Q2[Open-ended]  RQ1.1
After taking mindful relaxation, what changes do you feel in terms of your behavior in your own work? 
Alright, well, behavior changes in my own work, considering I am currently not involved in any project that requires coding with others and I am conducting the thesis on myself, so… I have to say the mindful relaxation is more like a way for me to relax or even release the potential stress for the moment I would say.  Umm… I’ve just done a lot of paperwork in the past month, so, I guess the only change would be learned how to get myself relaxed when I am struggling with my studies.


Q4[Open-ended]  RQ1.2
Did you work as a team in a school or industrial project, with other people in the past 28 days?
[To be asked ONLY when (s)he is working on a project or working with a team.] After taking mindful relaxation, what changes do you feel in terms of your behaviour in teamwork?]
No


Q3 [Open-ended] RQ1.1
How did the mindful principles help you achieve such changes?/ What mindful principles helped you ameliorate/improve your work experience?
I just followed the guidance of the mindful relaxation stuff over the past month, and the kind of relaxation just slightly improved my ability to focus, to a small extent when I am busy with my studies, but I guess that’s what it supposed to be like.  


Q5[Open-ended] RQ2
What major mental benefits have you taken away from the mindful relaxation in the past month?
Umm… well, like I said, as for me, the relaxation is like a way that I can take to relax and somehow, it may let me get more energy that I can assign to other stuff which I will be doing or the thing I am doing for that moment, which means, I can pay more attention at something, but it really… umm… not that obvious.


Q6[Open-ended] RQ2.1
After taking mindful relaxation, what changes in the way you view yourself? When I say the way you view yourself, it may include genuine self-knowledge or varying degrees of distortion
It’s a bit hard for me to answer, because I really don't know how I should view myself through the examples you just told me, plus, to be honest, I won’t say I did feel any difference in the way I view myself before the intervention. 


Q7[Open-ended] RQ2.2
After taking mindful relaxation, how did your ability to focus change?
Okay, speaking of that… I mean, that would be the only and the core change over the past 28 days I guess.  I just didn’t feel like there is any big difference before and after I took any kind of mindful relaxation, I gained more energy, that would push me a little bit to focus on what I am doing for that moment, it’s pretty much like… should I say a kind od body’s natural reaction after I took some break for me.  


Q8 [Open-ended] RQ1 RQ2
What are your take-aways, or learnings from mindful relaxation? 
Well, that would be like, maybe, I learned a new strategy of how I can get some relaxation using the least time I guess, especially if you are super busy doing something, if you are approaching the deadline but you literally just started from scratch, for example.


Q9 [Open-ended] RQ1 RQ2
Do you think you will continue practising mindful relaxation regularly in the future? Why or why not?
It really depends on if I am involved in any group project that requires communication within a team, personally, though I don’t think such mindful relaxation would affect or bring any super positive changes to my own work experience. Once I work with others, such meditation may lead to something that benefits teamwork.


Q10 [Open-ended] RQ1 RQ2
What other changes by the mindful relaxation do you think of? 
Not really, that’s all. Thank you.