Interview 5
Interviewee Nickname: Ling
Working in SE
Interviewer: Annan Lao
Time: 1030CET 1/May/2022 – 1055 CET 1/May/2022
Venue: Zoom
 
Thank you very much for your effort in the past 28 days. We really appreciate it! Now, we would like to ask you some questions about your experience.. The interview will be transcribed simultaneously and we will record your voice. Immediately after tidying up the transcript and when you have agreed upon the transcript, we will delete the recording permanently.
 
Q1[Open-ended]  RQ1
First question, how did your daily work experience change, for example implementing the requirements, pull request accepted, conceptual modelling or the grasp of the whole project?  
 
Well, I feel that how I perceived my work has improved. My quality of work, that is. my code... because in the past few months I've been working on a web development project and I think that the since I practiced mindful relaxation, I just felt that my works are clearer.  This maybe becuae, I tried to gauge the mindful concept in my work, and I try to focus on at the moment and because I sometimes used to be unconsciously do things that I was not intended to do, but the mindful relaxation taught me to just focus on what I have in hand.
 
Another difference is more space for creativity, because I always need time to come up with new ideas, the new design, modeling the system, drawing up the UML diagram when doing this I really need not only time but also focus on where the problem is. So I think I've became better in creating new things.
 
Q2[Open-ended]  RQ1.1
After taking mindful relaxation, what changes do you feel in terms of your behaviour in your own work? 
 
I think before I sometimes are idle handed but the mindful relaxation makes me tend to cherish all the hours and every minute I have at work and in life. I used to waste a lot of time implementing unnecessary things for the MVP or just doing useless work but now I tend to make my goals clearer
 
Another thing maybe more careful when working with things that need details. I feel I have always been a detail oriented person but I sometimes may lack the different perspective but mindful relaxation help me too spend more time on thinking and when I think more sometimes I can think of a different way of implementing or analyzing the requirements, for example.
 
Q4[Open-ended]  RQ1.2
Did you work as a team in a school or industrial project, with other people in the past 28 days?
[To be asked ONLY when (s)he is working on a project or working with a team.] After taking mindful relaxation, what changes do you feel in terms of your behaviour in teamwork?]
 
Yes I worked in a team of 7 people.
 
The meditation taught me to, for example, focus on my breath, focus on my body, and be grateful in things, so I think I was more collaborative with my teammates because when think of the mindful concepts. I think I'm I have more understanding of what other people are doing and I just felt that I I'm a better team player when I want to work with somebody else.
 
I also feel that I'm better communicating with my teammate, because I listen to their opinions very carefully like but I didn't really consciously practice this kind of careful listening before I practice mindful relaxation. What is most important in communicating? I guess is to assume that you are on others perspective and um… think from peace saturation. and this really really helped me communicate with the others, and I also feel that my colleagues are working with me more smoothly
 
Q3 [Open-ended] RQ1.1
How did the mindful principles help you achieve such changes?/ What mindful principles helped you ameliorate/improve your work experience?
I think that is the mindful itself. You… um.. pay attention to things and just focus on what's happening at the moment, even though the past was eventful, the future is bright. You still need to bury your head into your current work. And another thing was the attention to feel or sense the difference. Like the interview happening now. I feel very at present and I just would like to give all those small details that happened. And I think this was also what I learned from the mindful relaxation: to be more detail oriented. In order to be grateful to things in life we must pay attention to the small difference. To tell the small differences really helped me to work towards perfection.
 
Q5[Open-ended] RQ2
What major mental benefits have you taken away from the mindful relaxation in the past month?
First of all, I think when dealing with the stressors in life, I have confidence in myself that I can conquer them, because I have this good spirit and attitude and at the very circumstances happened all the time. But it's most important that you have belief in yourself, especially in this industry. I think this kind of mindset is very useful. When I am too stressed just take a breath and things will go well.
 
I also feel that I am in general a much more calm person. I feel that most of my colleagues are sometimes worried and there emotion fluctuation can be a lot when we encountered something very frustrating. I would also be like that. But after mindful relaxation I feel overall I can be a calm person. I have this belief in my mind, “take it easy I can do it”. People sometimes think it is the most hyper people who are energetic, but actually I think calm people can also be very energetic. Like, I feel like apart from being calm, I am also full of energy for the most of the time I work and I may work for less hours because I achieve the same things within less time.
 
I also feel that I am more satisfied with what I’ve done as long as I've put enough effort in it so I see myself as more productive though it is not necessarily true but mentally it is helpful.
 
Be soft to yourself?
Eactly.
 
Q6[Open-ended] RQ2.1
After taking mindful relaxation, what changes in the way you view yourself? When I say the way you view yourself, it may include genuine self-knowledge or varying degrees of distortion
 
Well, let me think. Well.. Mindful relaxation is a practice to reflect on your own, and in doing so, I've actually got more used to understanding myself. I think by the end of the day I was still very self reflective person but I tend to judge my self more fairly.
 
Q7[Open-ended] RQ2.2
After taking mindful relaxation, how did your ability to focus change?
Of course, focus was the main improvement in mindful relaxation. I think my attention flows is becoming better - it still takes me some time to get into the topic. I mean I'm not a robot I cannot immediately change state to focus, but I think the focus flow was much smoother because of the benefits of the mindful relaxation.
 
Q8 [Open-ended] RQ1 RQ2
What are your take-aways, or learnings from mindful relaxation? 
Well, I think that would be calmness. Because you need calmness to spend time with yourself, spend some quality time, and also you need calmness to communicate with people more effectively, so calmness is definitely the best gift from this sessions. And also a lot another acquisition is that I need to take the lead to take care of myself and your work really helped me to achieve this.
 
Thank you.
 
 Q9 [Open-ended] RQ1 RQ2
Do you think you will continue practising mindful relaxation regularly in the future? Why or why not?
Even though I have a very very busy schedule, I think I will still spend like 20 to 30 minutes every day in the future to do this, because I see the results and I don't think it is a waste of time. I actually gain a lot of confidence in myself from this practice and I want it to be kept.
 
Q10 [Open-ended] RQ1 RQ2
What other changes by the mindful relaxation do you think of? 
That's it, thank you.