Interview 8
Interviewee Nickname: 老罗
Working in SE
Interviewer: Annan Lao
Time: 1200CET 6/May/2022 - 1220 CET 6/May//2022
Venue: Zoom
 
Thank you very much for your effort in the past 28 days. We really appreciate it! Now, we would like to ask you some questions about your experience.. The interview will be transcribed simultaneously and we will record your voice. Immediately after tidying up the transcript and when you have agreed upon the transcript, we will delete the recording permanently.
 
Q1[Open-ended]  RQ1
First question, how did your daily work experience change, for example implementing the requirements, pull request accepted, conceptual modelling or the grasp of the whole project? 
Well this is a very detailed question. I haven't felt too much difference in terms of daily work. but I do think a better focus that I became helped me to come up with more ideas or should I say the ideas that I come up with are of better quality um, like when brainstorming for an idea I think my ideas were more to the point and I think this may be a positive change because of the mindful relaxation.
 
Q2[Open-ended]  RQ1.1
After taking mindful relaxation, what changes do you feel in terms of your behaviour in your own work?
During my own time at work… I think… because I have higher focus level, should I say, I I become better in self discipline. I think my work morale was better when doing any work I am more able to deliver things on time.
 
And I also attempt to strike a balance between my work and rest, I guess I feel more energetic when I return from a break, because my break is of higher quality because I sometimes do meditation during the break.
 
Q4[Open-ended]  RQ1.2
Did you work as a team in a school or industrial project, with other people in the past 28 days?
[To be asked ONLY when (s)he is working on a project or working with a team.] After taking mindful relaxation, what changes do you feel in terms of your behaviour in teamwork?]
Yes, I'm working on a school project.
I feel that I pay more attention to the performance of our team like I do keep an eye on things and like…
 
Did you pay more attention to the operation of the whole project?
Well you may say so, but I don't think it is because of my meditation.
And I don't know if it has anything to do with the mindful relaxation, but because I'm more self-reflecting I feel that my interaction with my teammates were more because I'm I feel more confident in myself 'cause I'm very honest to what I've been doing and how I perceive myself.
 
Q3 [Open-ended] RQ1.1
How did the mindful principles help you achieve such changes?/ What mindful principles helped you ameliorate/improve your work experience?
I'm not sure about mindful principles but I guess one important underlying thing to learn from it is that you just focus on what you are doing at the moment and know your mental state at the moment. a reasonable self-evaluation plays an important role in myself image and if I think myself to be of a better a person I think I am just more energetic.
 
Q5[Open-ended] RQ2
What major mental benefits have you taken away from the mindful relaxation in the past month?
I think the most important benefit is to be kind to yourself and um Not to be overwhelmed by the seemingly stressful difficulties in life. We will live with our body and mind for the entire life so to learn to live with our bad mood is also important. And I think mindful relaxation teach me a lesson to accept myself and this kind of mentality is very precious when working as software engineer.
 
Q6[Open-ended] RQ2.1
After taking mindful relaxation, what changes in the way you view yourself? When I say the way you view yourself, it may include genuine self-knowledge or varying degrees of distortion
 
Well, I guess the change should be very slight, but I still feel that I spent more time with myself, quality time, I think I can evaluate my state of mind more fairly, because I try to listen to my breath and I try to think about my feelings more. So, I think myself perception should be better - not necessarily better - but more real.
 
Q7[Open-ended] RQ2.2
After taking mindful relaxation, how did your ability to focus change?
Well focus is definitely improved. I used to be absent minded before. Like, my reflection on this entry questionnaire. But you'll see that on the exit questionnaire, I've evaluate myself to be more present minded, and I do feel that the efficient time I spent on working increased. I still sometimes not work when I should work, but I think overall I think (perceive?) myself to be more efficient.
 
Q8 [Open-ended] RQ1 RQ2
What are your take-aways, or learnings from mindful relaxation?
Take-aways… Um… Apart from focus, I think I became more believing in myself and understanding myself. The confidence comes from knowledge about myself, from practising the self-meditation. This also encourages me to be a little bit more presentable. And… um.. One last thing – it is OK to feel bad about myself sometimes, just take a breath.
 
Q9 [Open-ended] RQ1 RQ2
Do you think you will continue practising mindful relaxation regularly in the future? Why or why not?
Very likely, but I would appreciate it with more guidance. The benefits I experienced before will be more obvious when I keep practicing it for a longer time.
 
Q10 [Open-ended] RQ1 RQ2
What other changes by the mindful relaxation do you think of?
That’s it.