Interview 4
Interviewee Nickname: ii
SE students, NOT currently involved in any SE project.
Interviewer: Annan Lao
Time: 0900CET 1/May/2022 - 0930 CET 1/ May/2022
Venue: Zoom
 
Thank you very much for your effort in the past 28 days. We really appreciate it! Now, we would like to ask you some questions about your experience.. The interview will be transcribed simultaneously and we will record your voice. Immediately after tidying up the transcript and when you have agreed upon the transcript, we will delete the recording permanently.
 
Q1[Open-ended]  RQ1
First question, how did your daily work experience change, for example implementing the requirements, pull request accepted, conceptual modelling or the grasp of the whole project?  
 
My work experience has generally improved due to a better mind and I was more capable of communicating because I was a better listener, I think. And if we do it in the long run I think there will be a lot of improvement, but since the time is pretty short, I don't observe too much changes.
 
Q2[Open-ended]  RQ1.1
After taking mindful relaxation, what changes do you feel in terms of your behaviour in your own work? 
My feeling is that my behavior in work that I perceived changed not too much, but the main changes happen in my state of mind. But still, I think I was more conscious about what I was doing. So when handling the tasks in hand, I felt I was more engaged, and I became better organized, because if you only have one thing at a time, then you can complete it and avoid the hassle caused by multitasking. 
 
Another feeling that the mindfulness brought to me was the attention to self care. So when I'm off, not working, I may have more quality rest time, and I feel my mind is clearer when I finish the pause.
 
How?
Just resting, not thinking of work.
 
Q4[Open-ended]  RQ1.2
Did you work as a team in a school or industrial project, with other people in the past 28 days?
[To be asked ONLY when (s)he is working on a project or working with a team.] After taking mindful relaxation, what changes do you feel in terms of your behaviour in teamwork?]
 
Yes I worked in a project which my teammate
 
So like what I said, my communication with my teammate was actually better, because I was a better listener. Maybe I become slightly better at listening, because the principles learned from the mindful relaxation was to actually affect me, so that I'm more patient when listening to others opinions, and digest other opinions, before I make further comments. And because I am more present minded, I don't multitask when others talk to me, so I am more responsive to some requests by my teammates that are not well documented. I had a messy schedule and even though we use the kanban style to document things, some things are sometimes missing and it's not really ideal for teamwork. But with the mindful relaxation, I think even for the ambiguous part of work distribution, I was also able to deliver my part of work and clarify who is responsible for what, and also be more responsive to others issue
 
Q3 [Open-ended] RQ1.1
How did the mindful principles help you achieve such changes?/ What mindful principles helped you ameliorate/improve your work experience?
Well I think it should be present minded, that I only have the thing to focus on, and I don't really get distracted and that's the main lesson from the mindful relaxation or the principles that I learned that helped me to have a good communication strategy with my teammates. This in turns help me with my team work and our work wil be also improved as a result, I think, if this is to be exercised in the long run.
 
Another thing is sensitive to details. I was very careful should there be any change of tones and change over the atmosphere in my work. That helped me improve my teamwork and also I became slightly more detail oriented, like, I see things in a very detailed way and I'm always ready to make the fix, because these are the core principles of mindful relaxation, and just being able to see the small things and changes really helped me.
 
Q5[Open-ended] RQ2
What major mental benefits have you taken away from the mindful relaxation in the past month?
So, I think the major mental benefit was that it reduces my stress or pressure level - not because the workload doesn't exist, but I have a better way to mitigate stress and find a way out. Even though I have quite a tight work schedule, I work long hours, and I have a lot of things to do everyday, I see new challenges every day - but the mindful relaxation principles just help me to deal with the stress. And also I felt I became a better listener so that may help me know more people and befriend with more and to have a lot of friends is also very important to my mental health.
 
Usually the way I vent the stress was to watch the movies, and you know, surfing the Internet and so on… , also watching Netflix. But this helped me to deal with myself, to live with my own characteristics, and this will be a lesson for my whole life, not only in work but also in life. So I think if I practice longer, it will improve my work life experience.
 
Q6[Open-ended] RQ2.1
After taking mindful relaxation, what changes in the way you view yourself? When I say the way you view yourself, it may include genuine self-knowledge or varying degrees of distortion
 
To be very honest, I still think of myself as who I am. But maybe after the mindful relaxation I was more able to accept who I am, and I do feel that I perceive myself as a more and more productive person, and this productivity really helped me to think that I'm more competent and I do gain this can-do spirit slightly.
 
Q7[Open-ended] RQ2.2
After taking mindful relaxation, how did your ability to focus change?
I think I became better in focusing on the small things - like what I said - and also my focus lasts for longer time and I was not so easily interrupted by my own emotions or other feelings when I'm focusing on one thing, because what you're doing - mindful or meditation - is to just sit there and follow the instruction, reflect on your life, and that kind of affects my work. …I can give an example. I used to be quite elusive, like I'm working on a project and writing for the documentation, I may miss details and it may take more iterations to finish. But now I think I can just finish it in a one time deal.
 
Q8 [Open-ended] RQ1 RQ2
What are your take-aways, or learnings from mindful relaxation? 
So like what I said, the main lessons I learned was to deal with yourself, to bear with yourself and to accept the person who you really are, and to focus on only having one thing at a time. To pay attention to the details and… um… it helped me to have better work life balence and it helped me to become a more organized person.
 
 Q9 [Open-ended] RQ1 RQ2
Do you think you will continue practising mindful relaxation regularly in the future? Why or why not?
Yes, I think I will. The benefits I mentioned are a lot, though there are still more benefits in the long run, if I'm to practice it every day, and I really appreciate this opportunity to take this mindfulness session which helps me to establish the daily routine to take mindful relaxation. I am very willing to further take it in my life
 
Q10 [Open-ended] RQ1 RQ2
What other changes by the mindful relaxation do you think of? 
That’s all I can think of.