Interview 6
Interviewee Nickname: fourierBB
Working in SE
Interviewer: Peiran Wei
Time: 1300CET 30/April/2022 - 1320 CET 30/April/2022
Venue: Zoom
 
Thank you very much for your effort in the past 28 days. We really appreciate it! Now, we would like to ask you some questions about your experience.. The interview will be transcribed simultaneously and we will record your voice. Immediately after tidying up the transcript and when you have agreed upon the transcript, we will delete the recording permanently.
 
Q1[Open-ended]  RQ1
First question, how did your daily work experience change, for example implementing the requirements, pull request accepted, conceptual modelling or the grasp of the whole project?  
Well honestly speaking, I think my daily work experience has improved a lot. One thing that helps me is through meditation. Especially I’m working in a SE company. Obviously I can’t tell you the name of the place I’m working at and because of this, I don’t really have that much of time to do some mindful practices but the meditation I took did helps me to refresh my mind when I’m exhausted and overloaded by my work.


Q2[Open-ended]  RQ1.1
After taking mindful relaxation, what changes do you feel in terms of your behaviour in your own work? 
OK, since I’m working currently, working in a project, a software project, but we are really just in the phase of designing our requirements and construct our framework. So, the meditation in the past 28 days, the intervention didn’t affect a lot on my coding process, but the most obvious changes in terms of my behavior within my teamwork or on my own work is that I became more willing to join the discussion among all of my colleagues. Especially I’ve felt more joyful as for myself during my working hours after I took some mindful practices. That’s really positive I would say.


Q4[Open-ended]  RQ1.2
Did you work as a team in a school or industrial project, with other people in the past 28 days?
[To be asked ONLY when (s)he is working on a project or working with a team.] After taking mindful relaxation, what changes do you feel in terms of your behaviour in teamwork?]
Yes, yes, like what just said in the previous question. I’m currently working in the team along with five international colleagues and of course, I won’t tell you where they from or what they are working at because of the ethical reasons and since we are currently working during the phase of forming… not forming but formulating our requirements. So, we had more discussions along with our product manager, so after I took some meditation of mindful relaxation and I did feel my mind is becoming more active and I can bring some ideas there’s a good originality. The most important thing is that this kind of mood or how to say, the body language was really lead my other teammates to bring something more meaningful.


Q3 [Open-ended] RQ1.1
How did the mindful principles help you achieve such changes?/ What mindful principles helped you ameliorate/improve your work experience?
Well, let’s say, because I am currently working in the company and in the specific software based project. I really don’t have that much of time for mindful practices, so I don’t think I can bring some you know, meaningful principles of the mindful stuff. So, basically, the intervention in the past nearly one month, the 10 minutes practices per day really just help me to feel more relaxed and more focused on what I am working at at a specific moment I would say. And in terms of the efficiency, my own work experience is like more focus means more productivity, and then more productivity means more… not more, but high-efficiency.


Q5[Open-ended] RQ2
What major mental benefits have you taken away from the mindful relaxation in the past month?
Umm… All right, the most important benefits that the meditation brought to my mental is that, just like what I said in the last question, no, but the one before the last question. So the meditation is just helped me get more focus, the reason why that I get more focus is because I felt more relaxed and once people relaxed, and then, brain will become more active which means your brain get more space for you to consider, or to analyze the thing you were doing at that moment. So, that’s the major benefits that I got from meditation in the past one month.


Q6[Open-ended] RQ2.1
After taking mindful relaxation, what changes in the way you view yourself? When I say the way you view yourself, it may include genuine self-knowledge or varying degrees of distortion
Well well well, it’s a tough question. I mean, from my own point of view, it’s a bit similar compared with the previous question. How I could view myself is like my body or my brain got more space for myself to do something more and the things I just said could be some tasks of my work or some other issues in my daily life, yes.


Q7[Open-ended] RQ2.2
After taking mindful relaxation, how did your ability to focus change?
Yes, just like what I told you in the previous questions. That’s the main, or let’s say the core improvements of the mindful relaxation, the meditation brought to me in the past 28 days. 10 minutes practices per day did help me to improve a lot of my focus, focus on myself and the reason why I get more focus I just explained to you in previous questions. This kind of positive improvement did help me got more productivity when I’m doing something either during my working hours or even in my daily life.


Q8 [Open-ended] RQ1 RQ2
What are your take-aways, or learnings from mindful relaxation? 
Well well well, that’s what would be learned how to relax yourself, when you are fully booked with your work. That’s the point I would say.


Q9 [Open-ended] RQ1 RQ2
Do you think you will continue practising mindful relaxation regularly in the future? Why or why not?
Umm… All right, that’s really depends on my schedule I would say. For example, I’m currently working in a project, so I don’t have that much time for it and even I don’t have that much time to do some practices of my relaxation, I did feel some improvement or positive effects on myself. So, personally, I would rather to do it after this intervention regularly I would say.


Q10 [Open-ended] RQ1 RQ2
What other changes by the mindful relaxation do you think of? 
No… I think that’s all I can bring to you, thank you man.