Dear participant,

You are asked to participate in a research study conducted by Mr. Annan Lao and Mr. Peiran Wei, from the department of Computer Science and Engineering at Chalmers|Gothenburg University of Technology. You were selected as a possible participant in this study because of your interest in response to the advertisement for the study.

Background: 
We know these times with the pandemic can be stressful. We all worry about our families, about how life will continue, and what long-term changes we face. We can maybe also appreciate the small things and that life has slowed down a bit, for many of us. And be grateful for everything we still can do and enjoy. That doesn't mean it is easy. It is hard, on all of us, in one way or another. If you feel thrown a little out of balance, or are simply curious, then we have a proposal that can help you significantly improve your wellbeing, deal better with stressful situations, and may even improve your overall health.

Procedure: 
We will request you to fill out a questionnaire both before and after the intervention. During the four weeks of intervention, we would like to request you to do mindful relaxation on the platform including Insight Timer or Calm or Headspace for 10 minutes per day and at least 6 times per week including weekends. Voluntary withdrawal can happen anytime though we do encourage you to stay the whole period.
By the end of 28 days of self-led mindful relaxation, there will be a follow-up questionnaire for you to fill out. We also will include the link to the interview at the end of the second questionnaire. It’s voluntary, but we highly encourage you to give your input.

The survey, with a possible follow-up interview, will be anonymous but we give credits to participants in our published thesis. We kindly ask you to participate as it would be really helpful for us to conduct our thesis and we would highly appreciate your participation! 

Purpose of the research study: 
In parallel, we are interested in collecting some research data on your experience, and that is voluntary as well. The purpose of the study is to understand more about whether and how this training can be beneficial when spending a lot of time working at a computer. So understanding your experience is valuable for our study. This research data consists of answering an entry survey and an exit survey, and a voluntary interview. Your data will be anonymized, and we will only ask you to pick an identifier so we know which entry survey, exit survey, and interview belong together.

Survey: 
We are reusing standard survey instruments from validated research, which have been developed under rigorous quality assurance and are reliable. They have closed questions where you pick a rating and open questions where we ask for examples from your experience or further comments.

Interview: 
Your interview will be handled with adequate care. If you disclose any personal details that could identify you, we will not quote them in any way that could reveal your identity as a study participant. The more personal the experiences are that you share, the more helpful the data is. We will record our sessions to make them available to the participants who can't join live, so if you don't want to be on video, you can turn your camera off.

Potential risks and discomforts:
We request you to write down your nickname as unique as an ID. That way we know which parts of the data belong together. Please remember the nickname because we need you to input it again in the exit survey.
The risks of participating in this study are minimal. However, there is a small risk of inadvertent disclosure. In addition, your identity and the study findings may be disclosed through legal action - when, for example, non-disclosure would constitute contempt of court. However, as far as possible, we will ensure that any such disclosure is unlikely.

Potential benefits for participants and society: 
What you can get out of the training is to be more relaxed, handle stressful situations better, be more aware of your everyday surroundings, and increase your productivity. The practices we offer are not the only ways to get that, and you can decide whether it is a way that you want to learn about and practice.
By filling out the entry survey, you get a reflection of where you stand in your daily interactions with the world in terms of how present you are with what you are doing. By filling out the exit survey, you see how your perceptions of your daily actions have changed over time. By participating in the interview,  you do some more self-reflection on how certain things affect you in your life and how that changes over time as you practice certain techniques. 
The project will provide an opportunity for all participants to examine and read our findings if desired. We will do the analysis over the spring and hopefully have a publication drafted by the summer. We are happy to send a copy of or link to a publication where the data was used.
Payment for participation: You will not be paid for participating in this study.

Participation and withdrawal: 
You can choose whether to be in this study or not. If you volunteer to be in this study, you may withdraw at any time without consequences of any kind. Participation or non-participation will not affect any personal consideration or right you usually expect. You may also refuse to answer any questions you don't want to answer and still remain in the study. The investigator may withdraw you from this research if circumstances arise that in the opinion of the researcher warrant doing so.

Informed consent of research subject: 
By ticking the box “I agree” below, I understand the procedures and conditions of my participation described above. My questions have been answered to my satisfaction, and I agree to participate in this study. I have been given a copy of this form. By clicking next, I agree to the procedures and conditions.

You can contact us via email or phone if you wish to participate.
Annan Lao: guslaoan@student.gu.se , +46 73 559 9927 
Peiran Wei: guspeiwe@student.gu.se , +46 73 566 4677 
Thank you all for your patience in reading this invitation. Hope to hear from you soon! 
