Interview 12
Interviewee Nickname: Joker
SE students, currently involved in one SE project or more.
Interviewer: Annan Lao
Time: 1800CET 7/May/2022 - 1825 CET 7/May/2022
Venue: Zoom
 
Thank you very much for your effort in the past 28 days. We really appreciate it! Now, we would like to ask you some questions about your experience. The interview will be transcribed simultaneously, and we will record your voice. Immediately after tidying up the transcript and when you have agreed upon the transcript, we will delete the recording permanently.
 
Q1[Open-ended]  RQ1
First question, how did your daily work experience change, for example implementing the requirements, pull request accepted, conceptual modelling or the grasp of the whole project? 
I think my current experience working as a developer in the project was not significantly different from before. My changes were more about my mind. However, I do believe the ability to focus helped me to come up with more idea.
 
Q2[Open-ended]  RQ1.1
After taking mindful relaxation, what changes do you feel in terms of your behaviour in your own work?
I think my own work… Um… Benefited from the ability to focus. I do care more about what’s going on at the moment, also pay attention to the progress of the whole team. I think I feel more relaxed after I take the mindful relaxation, and emerge more energetic when going back to my own work.
 
Q4[Open-ended]  RQ1.2
Did you work as a team in a school or industrial project, with other people in the past 28 days?
[To be asked ONLY when (s)he is working on a project or working with a team.] After taking mindful relaxation, what changes do you feel in terms of your behaviour in teamwork?]
I worked on a team project.
Well, I’ve not thought of that. Let me think… Um… I think I was more careful about other colleagues’ (or teammates’) speech and became better in listening, because of the mind at present. But again, it’s just my own perception, may not be true.
 
It’s OK.
 
Q3 [Open-ended] RQ1.1
How did the mindful principles help you achieve such changes?/ What mindful principles helped you ameliorate/improve your work experience?
 
 
Q5[Open-ended] RQ2
What major mental benefits have you taken away from the mindful relaxation in the past month?
I think I became more aware of taking care of myself. I didn’t really care about my own state of mind before these 28 days, but after using headspace as a means to guide me through the mindful relaxation, I feel as if I am more able to adopt a sustainable practice that helps me with my own well-being.
 
Another thing is that I relieve the stress. Sometimes being stressed is inevitable, but I still needed to relax and take some time to think about myself – where have I been, what did I eat, how is my breathing, etc. When emptying my mind and only to think about nothing, the relaxation is more lasting than temporary recreation, like playing video games.  
 
What’s more, I think I can keep the energy boosted without leaving my desktop for a long time.
 
Q6[Open-ended] RQ2.1
After taking mindful relaxation, what changes in the way you view yourself? When I say the way you view yourself, it may include genuine self-knowledge or varying degrees of distortion
 
I don’t think my perception on myself changed to much, though I think I was softer on myself. Like, I still pushed myself from time to time, but I kind of developed a benchmark, and knew when it is too much.
 
Q7[Open-ended] RQ2.2
After taking mindful relaxation, how did your ability to focus change?
I think I am more capable of focusing on the task in hand. Less easily distracted as well. But I may need more time to practice improving my focus significantly.
 
One thing happened a lot was that I aim at my future goal too much that I lose track of what I’ve been doing/what I should do at the moment. If I use the mindset or idea of mindful relaxation, I believe I’d be much less distracted by these.
 
Q8 [Open-ended] RQ1 RQ2
What are your take-aways, or learnings from mindful relaxation?
Apart from what I’ve said, I think that is a sustainable way to care for my wellbeing. I believe that it’s my own duty to take care of myself, especially my mind, since we are working in a stressful project.
 
Q9 [Open-ended] RQ1 RQ2
Do you think you will continue practising mindful relaxation regularly in the future? Why or why not?
Yes, definitely. I believe in the idea behind it. The time I spend on it definitely worths it.
 
Q10 [Open-ended] RQ1 RQ2
What other changes by the mindful relaxation do you think of?
That’s it. Thank you.