Interview 10
Interviewee Nickname: pigcanfly
Working in SE
Interviewer: Peiran Wei
Time: 1410CET 6/May/2022 - 1430 CET 6/May/2022
Venue: Zoom
 
Thank you very much for your effort in the past 28 days. We really appreciate it! Now, we would like to ask you some questions about your experience.. The interview will be transcribed simultaneously and we will record your voice. Immediately after tidying up the transcript and when you have agreed upon the transcript, we will delete the recording permanently.
 
Q1[Open-ended]  RQ1
First question, how did your daily work experience change, for example implementing the requirements, pull request accepted, conceptual modelling or the grasp of the whole project?  
Okay, yeah, thank you for your examples. Personally, I didn’t feel like my working procedure changed a lot after I finished the intervention because I have been working within this community for years and I have had my own habit or preferences to relax myself when I’m going insane in terms of my workload.


Q2[Open-ended]  RQ1.1
After taking mindful relaxation, what changes do you feel in terms of your behaviour in your own work? 
Right, just like… like, umm… I’m working on a project within a team consisting of 5 developers. There is a feeling like I can bring some high quality ideas or bullet points that match the requirements of the project, after I took the mindful relaxation, however, personally, I can’t come up with some changes on my own work honestly. 


Q4[Open-ended]  RQ1.2
Did you work as a team in a school or industrial project, with other people in the past 28 days?
[To be asked ONLY when (s)he is working on a project or working with a team.] After taking mindful relaxation, what changes do you feel in terms of your behaviour in teamwork?]
Yes, yes, I’m currently working on an embedded project at my company and still going. 
Okay, like what I just said, it feels like I can have more meaningful individual contribution during the stand-up meeting of our project group, that’s the most significant difference I would say, maybe, it’s because, it’s pretty much how mindful relaxation works I guess. 


Q3 [Open-ended] RQ1.1
How did the mindful principles help you achieve such changes?/ What mindful principles helped you ameliorate/improve your work experience?
Umm… I’m not sure about the principles, all I can say is that the mindful practice or so called mindful relaxation did slightly help me to pay more attention to the assignment that I’m doing and somehow, I did feel my brain became more clear and active during the group discussion. 


Q5[Open-ended] RQ2
What major mental benefits have you taken away from the mindful relaxation in the past month?
Alright, I think the main thing that I learnt from the past month is like, I learnt a new way of thinking about how to relax myself and get myself kind of refreshed. I don’t think the mindful relaxation would really affect my behaviour because of my personal preferences but my mind would benefit. 


Q6[Open-ended] RQ2.1
After taking mindful relaxation, what changes in the way you view yourself? When I say the way you view yourself, it may include genuine self-knowledge or varying degrees of distortion
I don’t know, maybe it’s just I got more energy, or I can say that both my brain and my body would become more active after the relaxation, well, in this case, I can have or assign more time to some tasks I will be working on or some stuff. 


Q7[Open-ended] RQ2.2
After taking mindful relaxation, how did your ability to focus change?
Yeah, right, the… umm… that’s the most important learning of relaxation I would say, I became more focused when I’m working along with my colleagues, and this only happens when I’m working with others. It’s pretty much like, I can pay attention to the agenda of the meeting at a extra large extent


Q8 [Open-ended] RQ1 RQ2
What are your take-aways, or learnings from mindful relaxation? 
Umm… I think I  just answered this question in the last question. So, personally, it’s like learning a way to get one’s self refreshed if they are highly anxious about something they are dealing with. 


Q9 [Open-ended] RQ1 RQ2
Do you think you will continue practising mindful relaxation regularly in the future? Why or why not?
Right, as for myself, I would definitely keep doing it afterwards, but only when I am involved in some group project, because, again, I don’t think it would help me a lot when I’m working on my own since I would rather handle it my own way. However, if working with a big project, then, I have to get myself adapted to the group development procedure which requires more about the ability of focus I would say. 


Q10 [Open-ended] RQ1 RQ2
What other changes by the mindful relaxation do you think of? 
Umm… forgive me man, I don’t think I have anything more for you, thank you.