Interview 7
Interviewee Nickname: Duckling
SE students, currently involved in one SE project or more.
Interviewer: Annan Lao
Time: 0955CET 5/May/2022 - 1025 CET 5/May/2022
Venue: Zoom
 
Thank you very much for your effort in the past 28 days. We really appreciate it! Now, we would like to ask you some questions about your experience. The interview will be transcribed simultaneously, and we will record your voice. Immediately after tidying up the transcript and when you have agreed upon the transcript, we will delete the recording permanently.
 
Q1[Open-ended]  RQ1
First question, how did your daily work experience change, for example implementing the requirements, pull request accepted, conceptual modelling or the grasp of the whole project? 
Let me think… Well, there are not much changes … But, wait… I feel that I present my work to the other colleagues in a more organized way. For example, during the stand-up meeting, I feel that I was clearly showing them the work I’ve done, and that was in the last week of my mindful relaxation. I used to be quite random when speaking simultaneously, but I don’t know if it was because of the nature of the training (of meditation), I feel as if I was clearer when speaking at work.
 
Q2[Open-ended]  RQ1.1
After taking mindful relaxation, what changes do you feel in terms of your behaviour in your own work?
I feel I am more focusing and less subject to distraction. I kind of know how to intentionally control my focus span… I also feel that my own plan was better followed as a result, because of me being more productive.
 
Q4[Open-ended]  RQ1.2
Did you work as a team in a school or industrial project, with other people in the past 28 days?
[To be asked ONLY when (s)he is working on a project or working with a team.] After taking mindful relaxation, what changes do you feel in terms of your behaviour in teamwork?
I worked in school project.
I think I was focusing more not only in my work, but also in helping each other out. In the past few days, we were having some issues with a project, and some teammates turned to me for help. I did not realize I was so good at helping other before…
 
Do you think this is a result of mindful relaxation?
Maybe. We always come across stress in our project, but I found better way to help myself with that. With a chill mind, I feel I am more capable of helping others.
 
Q3 [Open-ended] RQ1.1
How did the mindful principles help you achieve such changes?/ What mindful principles helped you ameliorate/improve your work experience?
I guess so. One can only help others when himself is taken care of. I think to take care of myself helped me to also encourage the others and just be more energetic. And the idea of taking a deep breathe also helped me to alleviate my stress when I have a burning and thorny issue.
 
Q5[Open-ended] RQ2
What major mental benefits have you taken away from the mindful relaxation in the past month?
I feel the major mental benefit is being less vulnerable to frustrations. The process of trial and error can be quite frustrating, but like what I said, to take a deep breath and just focus on myself when taking a break really helped me to get along with myself. I reflect on myself once in a while, and I think I become calmer regardless of the situation.
 
Q6[Open-ended] RQ2.1
After taking mindful relaxation, what changes in the way you view yourself? When I say the way, you view yourself, it may include genuine self-knowledge or varying degrees of distortion
When listening to my own breath, in and out, I put a lot of focus on my own body. This level of self-reflection is just very beneficial, because it helps me to think of myself.
 
I also perceive myself to me a more delightful and calm person, slightly more. If I do it for a longer time, I think I will do even better.
 
Q7[Open-ended] RQ2.2
After taking mindful relaxation, how did your ability to focus change?
Yes, my focus really improved, in a lot of things in life. My focus is more robust, should I say. I no longer wander away while listening to others, even though there is a more important issue going on. Focus is easier said than done, and one can only know if he focused enough by his heart. I do feel my focus is better.
 
Q8 [Open-ended] RQ1 RQ2
What are your take-aways, or learnings from mindful relaxation?
To be grateful to the surroundings and be truthful to myself. The surroundings are ever changing, and there are a lot of things to worry. But in the meantime, also appreciate the surroundings, like a good weather or nice people. When I have a bad day, be honest - just tell myself, it’s going to be alright.
 
Q9 [Open-ended] RQ1 RQ2
Do you think you will continue practising mindful relaxation regularly in the future? Why or why not?
The journey of mindful relaxation is rewarding. I believe so. I’ve read a public science article saying that hardcore problems can be more easily solved if I practice it in the long run.
 
Q10 [Open-ended] RQ1 RQ2
What other changes by the mindful relaxation do you think of?
That’s all.