Interview 3
Interviewee Nickname: Simonster
SE students, currently involved in one SE project or more.
Interviewer: Annan Lao
Time: 1300CET 30/April/2022 - 1320 CET 30/April/2022
Venue: Zoom
 
Thank you very much for your effort in the past 28 days. We really appreciate it! Now, we would like to ask you some questions about your experience.. The interview will be transcribed simultaneously and we will record your voice. Immediately after tidying up the transcript and when you have agreed upon the transcript, we will delete the recording permanently.
 
Q1[Open-ended]  RQ1
First question, how did your daily work experience change, for example implementing the requirements, pull request accepted, conceptual modelling or the grasp of the whole project?  
 
Yeah so I don't really think I experienced any considerably large change… uh… from the mindful relaxation meditation thing.. uh.. yeah I don't know… I didn't really notice any any major changes
 
Q2[Open-ended]  RQ1.1
After taking mindful relaxation, what changes do you feel in terms of your behaviour in your own work? 
 
Yeah again for me maybe I would have to do this in my personal time a bit longer, like for a longer duration. But I don't really feel like I haven't really noticed any major differences in my behaviour or like my way of thinking or anything like that
 
Q4[Open-ended]  RQ1.2
Did you work as a team in a school or industrial project, with other people in the past 28 days?
[To be asked ONLY when (s)he is working on a project or working with a team.] After taking mindful relaxation, what changes do you feel in terms of your behaviour in teamwork?]
 
Yes, I worked on the bachelor thesis and we are also working on a software application, and I work together with one other person.
 
Um uh let's see.. I've noticed like a small change, so like if we have so if we're working, and we maybe have encountered a problem, maybe like the stress, or whatever you would say from encountering a problem sort of the yeah, it it's I'm not quite as stressed or I don't feel quite as anxious as before… Maybe that have slightly improved I would say
 
Q3 [Open-ended] RQ1.1
How did the mindful principles help you achieve such changes?/ What mindful principles helped you ameliorate/improve your work experience?
 
Right so I think just taking those 10 minutes every day, to just relax and meditate… I think that's just doing that has sort of helped - just making you more relaxed overall, and that has contributed to just being not as anxious and stressed. When I encounter this sort of problem from working and working on this software application.
 
Q5[Open-ended] RQ2
What major mental benefits have you taken away from the mindful relaxation in the past month?
Yeah yeah yeah like I said before, like, say it's sort of taking that self being anxious… so, like, I I'm not feeling anxious (when) working – like, the main mental benefits that I've noticed.
 
Q6[Open-ended] RQ2.1
After taking mindful relaxation, what changes in the way you view yourself? When I say the way you view yourself, it may include genuine self-knowledge or varying degrees of distortion
 
That's uh I don't really know. I wouldn't say that during this month relaxation has contributed to how I look at myself - I don't know - I don't think I see myself any differently than I did 28 days ago.
 
Q7[Open-ended] RQ2.2
After taking mindful relaxation, how did your ability to focus change?
 
I think it might have slightly improved, so generally I notice that I can zone out sometimes like I do when listening to someone or just working on something, but I think that might have improved slightly. I notice that I don't zone out quite as often. I made it while I was talking on paper, yeah. I'm able to listen without zoning out as much, so your focus has improved slightly overall.
 
Q8 [Open-ended] RQ1 RQ2
What are your take-aways, or learnings from mindful relaxation? 
 
Um… I think that it's a good way to relax. I think if I were to continue doing it, it would sort of bring out more benefits. If I did take it longer, …. But yeah the main benefit I've noticed, is just the just being more being able to take 10 minutes a day - just be more relaxed, and it has what I've noticed made a slight increase to the to my focus,… and uh yeah but I think I would have to do it a little bit longer to see like major improvements or any major differences.
 
Q9 [Open-ended] RQ1 RQ2
Do you think you will continue practising mindful relaxation regularly in the future? Why or why not?
 
Uh… Yeah. I think it's something I'm considering doing maybe. Yeah I would look into it a bit more, because so far I've just followed the instructions on their website you linked me to. I think from the changes I've noticed, so now they are quite small, I have not noticed any major changes… Or any major improvements. But if I were to continue doing it, I imagine I would see more improvements, and that's something I would be interested in finding out.
 
Q10 [Open-ended] RQ1 RQ2
What other changes by the mindful relaxation do you think of? 
 
And I I think I've listed all of the improvements and these changes are noticed and I haven't really experienced any other changes other than that, so I don't have anything else that I would say.
 
Thank you. That is the end of the interview. We wish you every success in your future endeavours in your study/work.